>> IN THE SKIES OVER CALIFORNIA,
SOME OF THE STRANGEST IMAGES
EVER SEEN.
>> THIS ACTUALLY WAS TAKEN IN
BAKERSFIELD, CALIFORNIA.
>> CRAFT THAT SEEMINGLY DEFY THE
RULES OF PHYSICS LIKE SOME OF
THE WORLD'S MOST ADVANCED
TECHNOLOGY. THERE ARE
ALLEGATIONS THAT THESE DESIGNS
MAY HAVE COME FROM BEYOND THE
STARS. IS IT POSSIBLE THAT WORLD
GOVERNMENTS HAVE BEEN SECRETLY
REVERSE ENGINEERING CRASHED
UFOs, CREATING TECHNOLOGICAL
MARVELS THAT SEEM TO APPEAR OUT
OF NOWHERE?
>> I SHOULDN'T BE TALKING
ABOUT IT.
>> DOES THE SR-71 BLACKBIRD SPY
PLANE OWE ITS REVOLUTIONARY
DESIGN TO THE UFO SIGHTINGS
REPORTED BY ITS CREATOR? IS IT
JUST COINCIDENCE THE B-2 STEALTH
BOMBER AND THE F-117 FIGHTER JET
RESEMBLE THE CRAFT DESCRIBED IN
THE FIRST MODERN UFO SIGHTING?
>> THERE WAS AN OBJECT IN
THE SKY.
>> HE ACTUALLY SAW WHAT WAS
ALMOST LIKE A STEALTH FIGHTER.
>> ARE THESE MILITARY DRONE
AIRCRAFT REVERSE ENGINEERED FROM
CAPTURED UFOs?
>> I'VE NEVER SEEN SOMETHING
LIKE THIS BEFORE.
>> OUR TECHNOLOGY HAS ADVANCED
EXPONENTIALLY OVER THE PAST 60
YEARS, MORE QUICKLY THAN OUR
ABILITY TO DEAL WITH ITS
CONSEQUENCES.
>> WE'RE PLAYING WITH TIME
TRAVEL. WE'RE PLAYING WITH
TELEKINESIS.
>> BUT IS SOME OF OUR MOST
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY NOT OUR OWN?
THIS IS CASE NUMBER 47204:
REVERSE ENGINEERING.
[ROCK MUSIC PLAYING]
>> ♪ I'M NOT THE ONLY ONE,
THE ONLY ONE,
I'M NOT THE ONLY ONE,
THE ONLY ONE ♪
>> THE TEAM FROM UFO MAGAZINE IS
IN FORT COLLINS, COLORADO
LOOKING AT THE STRANGEST
EVIDENCE OF REVERSE ENGINEERING
IN RECENT YEARS.
>> THIS ACTUALLY WAS TAKEN
ALLEGEDLY IN BAKERSFIELD,
CALIFORNIA, SHOWING A VERY
OBVIOUSLY CLEAR CRAFT. IT LOOKS
VERY SOPHISTICATED.
>> THE PHOTO WAS POSTED
ANONYMOUSLY ON AN INTERNET
PUBLIC FORUM. THE CRAFT IS
HOOP-SHAPED WITH SPIRES ON TOP
THAT PRESUMABLY PROVIDE SOME
SORT OF LIFT OR PROPULSION.
JAMES CARRION IS THE
INTERNATIONAL DIRECTOR OF MUFON,
THE MUTUAL UFO NETWORK, FOUNDED
IN 1969 TO SCIENTIFICALLY AND
OBJECTIVELY INVESTIGATE UFOs. IT
HAS BECOME ONE OF THE
OUTSTANDING RESOURCES FOR UFO
RESEARCH.
>> ANOTHER SERIES OF PHOTOS CAME
OUT ON MAY 16 IN CAPITOLA,
CALIFORNIA.
>> THIS PHOTO WAS POSTED BY
SOMEONE USING A DIFFERENT SCREEN
NAME, BUT IT SEEMS TO SHOW THE
SAME CRAFT IN A DIFFERENT PART
OF THE STATE.
>> NOW, AFTER THESE
INITIAL IMAGES CAME OUT, IN
MAY, ANOTHER SERIES OF IMAGES
WERE REPORTED DIRECTLY TO
MUFON'S WEB SITE, ALLEGEDLY
TAKEN BY A CELL PHONE.
>> 3 SETS OF PHOTOS
SEEMINGLY OF THE SAME CRAFT.
WHAT IS THE CORRELATION? MOST OF
THE LOCATIONS ARE NEAR SARATOGA,
CALIFORNIA. AND THAT'S NOT ALL.
NEARBY ARE NASA'S AMES RESEARCH
CENTER, AND 10 MILES AWAY,
MOFFETT FIELD, ALSO NOW
ADMINISTERED BY NASA. THIS HAS
ADDED TO THE SPECULATION THAT
THE CRAFT, WHATEVER IT IS, IS A
CREATION OF THE UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT.
>> THIS LAST SERIES OF PHOTOS
THAT CAME OUT IN BIG BASIN,
CALIFORNIA IN JUNE...IF YOU
LOOK CLOSELY ENOUGH AT THEM,
YOU'LL SEE THAT THEY HAVE ON
THEM SYMBOLS.
>> THE CRYPTIC SYMBOLS ON THE
DRONE'S BODY DO NOT RESEMBLE ANY
KNOWN ALPHABET, BUT ONE PERSON
HAS COME FORWARD CLAIMING TO
KNOW THEIR ORIGIN.
>> A GENTLEMEN NAMED ISAAC
CLAIMED THAT HE RECOGNIZED THE
SYMBOLS THAT WERE ON THESE DRONE
CRAFT BECAUSE HE WORKED ON THEM
UNDER A SECRET GOVERNMENT
PROJECT BACK IN THE 1980s CALLED
THE CARET PROGRAM.
>> IN JUNE 2007, A MAN
IDENTIFYING HIMSELF AS ISAAC
POSTED A LETTER ON THE INTERNET
CLAIMING HE HAD BEEN AN ENGINEER
FOR A SECRET GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
CALLED CARET: COMMERCIAL
APPLICATION RESEARCH FOR
EXTRATERRESTRIAL TECHNOLOGY. HE
BACKED UP HIS CLAIMS BY POSTING
DOCUMENTS WHICH HE HAD ALLEGEDLY
STOLEN FROM CARET AND
PHOTOCOPIED. "THE MILITARY WAS
HARD AT WORK TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND AND USE THE
EXTRATERRESTRIAL ARTIFACTS IT
HAD IN ITS POSSESSION." MUFON
HAS BEEN INVESTIGATING THE
CLAIMS AND ANALYZING THE CARET
DOCUMENTS TO ASSESS ISAAC'S
CREDIBILITY.
>> SO HE RELEASED THIS SERIES OF
DOCUMENTATION, AND THESE WERE
THE MAJOR ALLEGATIONS. HE
BELIEVES THESE CRAFT USE
INVISIBILITY TECHNOLOGY, THAT
THE REASON THEY WERE SEEN BY
THESE PHOTO WITNESSES IS BECAUSE
THE INVISIBILITY CLOAK WAS
DISRUPTED BY SOME NON-HUMAN
TECHNOLOGY.
>> THE CLAIMS FROM THIS ELUSIVE
WITNESS MAY SEEM EXTREME, BUT
SCIENTISTS, ENGINEERS, AND
EXPERTS THE WORLD OVER BELIEVE
THAT GOVERNMENTS HAVE BEEN
REVERSE ENGINEERING ALIEN CRAFT
FOR THE PAST 60 YEARS. BUT SUCH
CLAIMS HAVE NEVER BEFORE BEEN
SUPPORTED WITH DOCUMENTS AND
PHOTOGRAPHS AS CLEAR AND
DETAILED AS THESE.
>> CHECK THIS OUT. WHAT IF THERE
WAS THIS REVERSE ENGINEERING
PROGRAM GOING ON, AND THEN THESE
ARE, LIKE, LITTLE TEST FLIGHTS
HAPPENING IN THE SKIES?
>> SO FOR ME TO GET A BETTER
SENSE OF THIS, WE NEED TO GET
SOME IMAGE ANALYSTS TO REVIEW
THOSE--EXPERTS IN THEIR FIELDS
WHO COULD LOOK AT THE CASE HERE
AND GIVE US THEIR EXPERT
OPINION.
>> LOOK, I'LL TELL YOU ONE
THING. REVERSE ENGINEERING IS
VERY, VERY TOUGH TO PROVE.
EXTREMELY TOUGH TO PROVE. BUT
THERE ARE SOME INCREDIBLE
EXPERTS IN THE FIELD, AND SEE
WHAT THEIR TAKE IS ON WHAT'S
BEEN REVERSE ENGINEERED
TECHNOLOGY.
SO, PAT, LET'S COLLECT THIS
MATERIAL, LET'S GET TO THE
EXPERTS.
>> YOU GOT IT.
>> THE TEAM TRAVELS TO
LITTLETON, COLORADO TO MEET AN
ENGINEER WHO CLAIMS TO HAVE
FIRSTHAND KNOWLEDGE THAT
GOVERNMENT REVERSE ENGINEERING
PROGRAMS ARE REAL.
>> I NEVER TALKED ABOUT THAT FOR
YEARS BECAUSE I FELT THAT IT WAS
A CLASSIFIED THING AND I
SHOULDN'T BE TALKING ABOUT IT.
>> JOHN SCHUESSLER
WORKED FOR NASA
DURING THE GEMINI AND APOLLO
PROGRAMS FROM 1962 UNTIL HIS
RETIREMENT IN 1998. HIS
INTRODUCTION INTO UFO PHENOMENON
BEGAN WITH NASA'S GEMINI
MISSIONS.
>> ON THE FIRST GEMINI FLIGHT,
IT WAS THE GEMINI TITAN II. IT
WAS AN UNMANNED MISSION.
>> JANUARY 19, 1965, THE GEMINI
TITAN II ROCKET LAUNCHES INTO
SPACE AT 2:03 P.M. MINUTES
LATER, AS THE ROCKET MAKES ITS
SUB-ORBITAL FLIGHT, SCHUESSLER
NOTICES SOMETHING ANOMALOUS.
>> WHEN THAT CAME AROUND THE
EARTH THE FIRST TIME, IT WAS
REPORTED THERE WERE 2 OBJECTS
WITH IT. AND THEY WERE SPOTTED
BY RADAR. AND ON THE SECOND TIME
AROUND, THEY WERE GONE.
>> THIS MYSTERIOUS EVENT WAS THE
BEGINNING OF A WAVE OF SIGHTINGS
UFO EXPERTS BELIEVE WERE
WITNESSED BY ASTRONAUTS. JUNE 4,
1965, THE GEMINI IV CAPSULE
ORBITS ABOVE HAWAII. ASTRONAUT
JAMES McDIVITT MANS THE CONTROLS
WHILE HIS PARTNER ED WHITE
SLEEPS. SUDDENLY AN OBJECT
APPEARS OUTSIDE THE WINDOW.
McDIVITT DESCRIBES IT AS A
CYLINDRICAL OBJECT WITH A LONG
ARM JUTTING OUT FROM ONE SIDE.
HE TAKES 2 PHOTOGRAPHS, THEN,
FEARING THE CAPSULE MIGHT HIT
THE OBJECT, HE TURNS ON THE
ROCKET ENGINES AND MOVES THE
SPACECRAFT TO A SAFER LOCATION.
WHEN HE LOOKS OUT THE WINDOW
AGAIN, THE OBJECT IS GONE.
>> HE WAS VERY CANDID ABOUT
SAYING THAT HE DID SEE SOMETHING
THAT WASN'T OURS. THIS WAS A GUY
WHO WAS A GENERAL IN THE AIR
FORCE. HE WAS A WELL-KNOWN
FIGHTER PILOT. AND THEN SERIOUS
WHEN HE SAID SOMETHING'S
GOING ON.
>> NORAD'S OFFICIAL EXPLANATION
WAS THAT THE OBJECT WAS THE
DISCARDED SECOND STAGE OF THE
TITAN II ROCKET. BUT WHILE
McDIVITT INSISTED THAT IT WASN'T
WHAT HE SAW, HE NEVER FILED A
UFO REPORT AND DECLINED TO SPEAK
PUBLICLY ON HIS SIGHTING.
SCHUESSLER BEGAN COMPILING
DOCUMENTS DETAILING NASA'S UFO
ENCOUNTERS, DESCRIBING WHAT THE
CRAFT LOOKED LIKE AND HOW THEY
FLEW. HIS INVESTIGATIONS DIDN'T
GO UNNOTICED.
>> I SHOULDN'T BE TALKING ABOUT
IT. IN FACT, I WAS CALLED IN AND
ASKED FOR SOME DOCUMENTS--UFO
DOCUMENTS--BY AN ADVANCED DESIGN
GROUP DESIGNING A STEALTH
FIGHTER. AND I TURNED OVER TO
THEM A BUNCH OF MY FILES SO THEY
COULD LOOK AND SEE IF THERE WAS
A REVERSE ENGINEERING STEALTH
TECHNOLOGY. BEFORE LONG, THAT
GROUP WAS WORKING STEALTH
TECHNOLOGY.
>> STEALTH IS ONE OF MANY
ASTOUNDING TECHNOLOGIES
DEVELOPED OVER THE PAST 60
YEARS. SINCE THE 1940s,
TECHNOLOGY HAS PROGRESSED AT A
SEEMINGLY EXPONENTIAL RATE.
TRANSISTORS AND MICRO
CIRCUITRY HAVE REVOLUTIONIZED
ELECTRONICS. ADVANCES IN
AVIATION MATERIALS ALLOW OUR
PLANES TO FLY FASTER THAN WAS
PREVIOUSLY BELIEVED POSSIBLE.
BUT DID WE DO IT ALONE?
A LANDMARK EVENT
COINCIDES WITH THE BEGINNING OF
THE TECHNOLOGICAL REVOLUTION.
WAS THE TIMING COINCIDENTAL, OR
IS THERE A CONNECTION? JULY 7,
1947, A FLYING DISC IS ALLEGED
TO HAVE CRASHED AT ROSWELL, NEW
MEXICO. WITNESSES HAVE TESTIFIED
THAT THE OBJECT WAS IMMEDIATELY
TAKEN AWAY BY THE U.S. ARMY.
>> YOU BELIEVE THAT THERE MUST
HAVE BEEN A CRASH SOMEWHERE
ALONG THE LINE, OR SOMEHOW WE
ACQUIRED ONE OF THESE VEHICLES.
>> TECHNOLOGY ITEMS SUDDENLY
BURST ONTO THE SCENE IN 2 OR 3
LOCATIONS AT ONCE, LIKE THEY'VE
ALL BEEN FED SOME SEED, YOU
KNOW, TO MAKE IT GROW, AND THEY
ALL COME TO SIMILAR CONCLUSIONS.
>> WHAT IS THE TECHNOLOGY?
>> FIBER OPTICS WERE REPORTED IN
THE EARLY CRASHES. THEY DIDN'T
CALL THEM FIBER OPTICS, BUT THEY
LOOK LIKE GLASS WIRES OR
SOMETHING. INVISIBILITY--WE HAD
LOTS OF REPORTS THAT UFOs WERE
FLYING ALONG, BEING CHASED, THEN
SUDDENLY THEY'RE GONE. THEY
CHECK WITH THE GROUND, THEY GET
GROUND-TRACK RADAR ON IT, THEY
HAVE AIRCRAFT VISUAL AND
AIRCRAFT RADAR. YOU COULD NOT
SEE IT.
>> MANY TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCES
BEING UNVEILED TODAY WERE
DESCRIBED YEARS AGO BY UFO
WITNESSES.
>> JUST RECENTLY, IT WAS SAID
THAT THEY CAN MAKE A TANK LOOK
INVISIBLE BY PROJECTING THE
IMAGE BEHIND IT IN FRONT OF IT.
YOU KNOW, YOU CAN'T EVEN SEE A
TANK SITTING ON THE GROUND.
>> BRITISH DEFENSE RESEARCHERS
RECENTLY MADE A TANK INVISIBLE
BY PROJECTING THE BACKGROUND
IMAGE ONTO A SPECIAL FOREGROUND
SURFACE. UFO WITNESSES HAVE LONG
REPORTED CRAFT APPARENTLY
DISAPPEARING IN FRONT OF
THEIR EYES.
>> YOU WERE THERE. WHAT WAS THE
SCUTTLEBUTT IN THAT COMMUNITY?
WERE PEOPLE TALKING?
>> WELL, GUYS TALK ABOUT THINGS
OF A VERY UNUSUAL NATURE TO EACH
OTHER, BUT THEY DON'T TALK TO
PEOPLE OUTSIDE OF THAT
COMMUNITY. THE SPECIAL ACCESS
COMMUNITY IS A VERY CLOSE
COMMUNITY, AND YOU WILL LIE,
CHEAT, OR STEAL TO PROTECT IT.
AND IT'S NECESSARY TO BE
THAT WAY.
>> WOULD YOU HAVE HEARD ANY
RUMORS, WHO'S GOT WHAT?
>> I WOULD NOT SAY THAT ON
CAMERA.
>> I ASKED HIM STRAIGHT UP, YOU
KNOW, "OK, WELL, YOU KNOW
PEOPLE, YOU KNOW, WHO HAVE YOU
TALKED TO, WHO'S GOT THE STUFF,
WHO'S GOT THE GOODS, WHERE IS
THIS CRAFT BEING KEPT?"
>> YOU DON'T WANT ME SHOT,
DO YOU?
>> AND HE BASICALLY SAID, "NO,
I CAN'T TELL YOU THAT."
>> SCHUESSLER IS CERTAIN THAT
REVERSE ENGINEERING OF DOWNED
UFOs IS BEING DONE SECRETLY.
>> THERE'S JUST WAY TOO MANY
ADVANCEMENTS COMING OUT, AND
PEOPLE DON'T REALLY KNOW WHAT'S
GOING ON BEHIND THE SCENES.
>> ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES HAVE
LONG AND COMPLICATED HISTORIES,
MAKING IT DIFFICULT TO TRACE
THEIR DEVELOPMENT. BUT ONE
AVIATION EXPERT HAS NOTICED
STRIKING SIMILARITIES BETWEEN
A UFO AND A REVOLUTIONARY U.S.
AIRCRAFT. MARCH AIR FORCE BASE,
RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.
AIRCRAFT JOURNALIST BERNARD
TOURNELL HAS STUDIED THE SUDDEN
INVENTION OF THE SR-71, MORE
COMMONLY REFERRED TO AS THE
BLACKBIRD.
>> THE PIECE DE RESISTANCE OF
THE COLD WAR.
>> LOCKHEED DESIGNER CLARENCE
"KELLY" JOHNSON DEFIED ALL
CONVENTIONAL AERONAUTICAL DESIGN
WHEN HE CREATED THE SR-71. ITS
FLATTENED SHAPE AND TAPERING
SIDES REDUCED ITS RADAR
SIGNATURE TO A MINIMUM. AIRCRAFT
OF COMPARABLE SIZE TO THE
BLACKBIRD APPEAR ON RADAR
SCREENS THE SIZE OF A FLYING
HOUSE, BUT THE SR-71 APPEARS THE
SIZE OF JUST THE FRONT DOOR.
EVEN MORE ASTOUNDING, KELLY
ACHIEVED THIS EFFECT 25 YEARS
BEFORE THE STEALTH FIGHTER WAS
UNVEILED. IT WAS THE FIRST CRAFT
TO BE COMPRISED MAINLY OF
TITANIUM AND ONE OF THE FIRST
ATTEMPTS IN STEALTH DESIGN.
WHERE DID KELLY JOHNSON'S
ADVANCED IDEAS COME FROM?
>> THE BLENDED WING FUSELAGE,
THE STUBBY WINGS, AND THE HUGE
TAIL SURFACES--A PLANE THAT BY
RIGHT SHOULDN'T FLY.
>> YOU'RE SAYING THAT THE
DESIGNER OF THE SR-71 WAS
INSPIRED BY A UFO SIGHTING?
>> JOHNSON HAD 2 VERIFIED
ENCOUNTERS WITH UFOs AND
SUBSEQUENTLY FILED REPORTS OF
BOTH SIGHTINGS.
>> WAS HIS SKETCH OF A UFO THE
FIRST BLUEPRINT OF AN SR-71?
>> IN DECEMBER 1964, THE SR-71
WAS UNVEILED. ITS MACH-3
CRUISING SPEED, TITANIUM AIR
FRAME, AND REVOLUTIONARY STEALTH
TECHNOLOGY ASTOUNDED AVIATION
EXPERTS. BUT SOME WONDERED IF
THESE ADVANCES WERE SOMEHOW
RELATED TO DESIGNER KELLY
JOHNSON'S REPORTS OF SEEING
UFOs. JOHNSON DIED IN 1990
WITHOUT ANSWERING THE QUESTION.
>> KELLY JOHNSON CONCEIVED
REALLY THE AIRCRAFT FROM A TO Z.
THE CONCEIVED THE U-2
THE SAME WAY.
>> NOW, CLARENCE KELLY HAD A UFO
SIGHTING.
>> NOVEMBER 15, 1951, AGOURA,
CALIFORNIA. JOHNSON WITNESSES A
STRANGE OBJECT IN THE SKY WITH A
SWEPT-BACK FLYING WING SHAPE
UNLIKE ANY KNOWN AIRCRAFT OF
THAT TIME.
>> SO HE SAW SOMETHING ELLIPTIC,
VERY METALLIC, AND VERY HUGE
DIMENSION. THERE WAS ALSO
ANOTHER SIGHTING A YEAR AFTER.
>> DECEMBER 15, 1953, 2 YEARS
LATER, JOHNSON NOTICES A DARK
ELLIPTICAL SHAPE HOVERING
MOTIONLESS IN THE SKY. SUDDENLY
IT BEGINS ACCELERATING AT
IMPOSSIBLY FAST SPEED.
>> HE SAW A STRANGE CRAFT WITH 2
EXHAUST GOING VERY FAST. IT WAS
NOT JET, AND HE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT
IT WAS.
>> JOHNSON MADE DETAILED NOTES
AND A SKETCH OF THAT OBJECT. HE
BELIEVED IT TO BE
APPROXIMATELY 200 FEET WIDE,
HOVERING AT AN ALTITUDE OF
15,000 FEET, AND ABOUT 30 TO 60
MILES AWAY. HIS SKETCH OF THE
ENIGMATIC OBJECT
STRONGLY RESEMBLES THE PLANE HE
DESIGNED 13 YEARS LATER.
>> HE MENTIONED THAT HE CANNOT
EXPLAIN WHAT HE SAW. BUT THE
MOST INTERESTING THING WAS
ANOTHER CREW WAS FLYING AT THE
SAME TIME.
>> JOHNSON'S UFO SIGHTING WAS
INDEPENDENTLY CONFIRMED BY 2
LOCKHEED PILOTS ON A WV-2 TEST
FLIGHT NEAR LONG BEACH,
CALIFORNIA.
>> IF THEY CAN CORROBORATE WHAT
HE SAW...
>> THE 2 PILOTS BOTH REPORTED
SEEING THE SAME DARK SHAPE AND
ECHOED JOHNSON'S ESTIMATE OF THE
OBJECT'S ALTITUDE AND SPEED.
>> WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT
CLARENCE "KELLY" JOHNSON WAS THE
FOUNDER OF LOCKHEED SKUNK WORKS,
AN AEROSPACE COMPANY THAT WENT
ON TO DESIGN SOME OF THE MOST
ADVANCED FLYING CRAFT IN THE
WORLD. SO THIS WAS NO AVERAGE
ENGINEER, AND ONE HAS TO WONDER,
WAS HIS SKETCH OF A UFO THE
FIRST BLUEPRINT OF AN SR-71?
>> IT WOULD BE INCREDIBLY
INTERESTING AS AN ENGINEER OR
SCIENTIST TO TRY TO
REVERSE ENGINEER SOMETHING LIKE
A UFO. AN ENGINEER CAN TAKE THE
KNOWLEDGE THEY HAVE AND SEE SOME
HINTS TOWARDS HOW TO EVOLVE IT.
>> WHATEVER THE SOURCE OF HIS
INSPIRATION, KELLY JOHNSON'S
SR-71 WAS THE FIRST OF AN
ONGOING STREAM OF EVER-MORE
SOPHISTICATED STEALTH DESIGNS.
THE SR-71 HAS HAD AN IMPACT ON
EVERY MILITARY PLANE IN THE SKY
TODAY. THE SR-71 IS NOT THE ONLY
PLANE WHOSE REVOLUTIONARY DESIGN
RAISED QUESTIONS ABOUT ITS
ORIGIN. WHEN THE B-2 STEALTH
BOMBER AND THE F-117 STEALTH
FIGHTER WERE UNVEILED, THEIR
FLYING WING SHAPE WAS
REVOLUTIONARY, BUT EVEN MORE
ASTOUNDING IS THEIR LACK OF
RADAR SIGNATURE. DUE TO A
REVOLUTIONARY TOP-SECRET SKIN
THAT UFO RESEARCHERS BELIEVE
ALSO TO BE REVERSE ENGINEERED,
THE AIRPLANES ARE COMPLETELY
UNDETECTABLE WHILE FLYING.
UFOLOGISTS IMMEDIATELY
REMEMBERED THE FIRST MODERN UFO
SIGHTING IN 1947, WHEN PILOT
KENNETH ARNOLD SAW UNKNOWN
FLYING WING SHAPED OBJECTS OVER
MOUNT RAINIER, WASHINGTON.
>> PEOPLE BELIEVE THAT KENNETH
ARNOLD SAW A SAUCER IN THE SKY.
WRONG--WHAT KENNETH ARNOLD
ACTUALLY SAW WAS ALMOST A
DELTA-WING SHAPE, ALMOST LIKE A
STEALTH FIGHTER. THE CRAFT THAT
ACTUALLY CRASHED AT ROSWELL WAS
NOT A FLYING SAUCER. IT WAS A
FLYING CRESCENT. TODAY'S FLYING
WING DESIGNS ARE ALMOST DIRECT
DESCENDANTS OF THE MODIFIED
BLENDED FLYING WING THAT
CRASHED AT ROSWELL.
>> A FLYING WING AIRCRAFT BLENDS
THE FUSELAGE INTO THE WINGS,
CREATING A WEDGE-SHAPED PLANE.
ALTHOUGH A FLYING WING HAS
SUPERIOR LIFT AND FUEL
EFFICIENCY, HISTORICALLY IT'S
PROVED HARD TO MANEUVER. THE
GERMANS PRODUCED A JET-POWERED
FLYING WING AIRCRAFT IN 1944,
BUT PRESSURES OF WAR KEPT
DESIGNERS FROM SOLVING THE
CRAFT'S MANY TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTIES. THE U.S. AIR FORCE
BEGAN DEVELOPING FLYING WING
AIRCRAFT, BUT SHUT DOWN THE
PROGRAM IN 1948 WHEN A CRASH
KILLED 2 TEST PILOTS AND 3
ENGINEERS. WAS TECHNOLOGY TAKEN
FROM THE ROSWELL CRASH
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE EVENTUAL
PERFECTION OF THE FLYING WING?
>> IF THESE UFOs EXISTED, AND
THEY WERE JUST THOUSANDS OF
YEARS MORE ADVANCED THAN WHAT WE
ARE FAMILIAR WITH TODAY, I'M NOT
SURE THAT WE WOULD BE ABLE TO
UNDERSTAND IT.
>> REVERSE ENGINEERING ENTAILS
COPYING EVERYTHING FROM AN
EXISTING MACHINE, FROM
COMPLICATED ELECTRONICS DOWN TO
THE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF
BASIC MATERIALS. IT'S NO EASY
TASK EVEN WHEN THE TECHNOLOGY
BEING COPIED IS FROM RIGHT HERE
ON EARTH.
>> THE B-29 BOMBER IS PROBABLY
THE BEST EXAMPLE OF
REVERSE ENGINEERING.
>> THROUGH THE COLD WAR, WORLD
WAR II, WORLD WAR I, THE
MILITARY HAS BEEN DOING
REVERSE ENGINEERING OF FOREIGN
AIRCRAFT. FAMOUS CASES OF U.S.
GETTING THEIR HANDS ON RUSSIAN
AIRCRAFT AND REVERSE ENGINEERING
THE FUNCTIONALITY OR SOME OF THE
ADVANCED PERFORMANCE
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE RUSSIAN
AIRCRAFT. AND IT GOES BOTH WAYS.
THE RUSSIANS ARE DOING THE SAME
THING TO US.
>> IT'S UNDISPUTED THAT
COUNTRIES ROUTINELY
REVERSE ENGINEER TECHNOLOGIES
FROM OTHER COUNTRIES. COULD THEY
BE APPLYING THE SAME TECHNIQUES
TO OBJECT NOT OF THIS WORLD?
>> STALIN GAVE THE ORDER,
IF WE CAN GET A B-29,
TRY TO REBUILD IT.
>> JULY 31, 1944, A B-29 BOMBER
EXPERIENCES ENGINE PROBLEMS AND
IS FORCED TO LAND NEAR
VLADIVOSTOK, U.S.S.R. LATER, 2
OTHER B-29s ALSO MAKE EMERGENCY
LANDINGS IN RUSSIA. ANOTHER
CRASHES IN SIBERIA. ALL 4 CRAFT
ARE KEPT BY THE SOVIETS. THEIR
REVERSE ENGINEERING EFFORT
CREATES THE TUPOLEV TU-4.
>> THE RUSSIANS WERE ORDERED TO
REBUILD THE B-29 BOLT BY BOLT:
105,000 PIECES.
>> IRONICALLY, HIGHLY COMPLEX
MACHINERY IS NOT ALWAYS THE
BIGGEST CHALLENGE.
>> THE RUSSIANS WERE NOT ABLE TO
REPRODUCE EVERYTHING.
>> LOOK AT THE RUSSIANS WITH THE
B-29 HAVING DIFFICULTY JUST TO
MAKE A SMALL STEP FORWARD. NOW
IMAGINE GETTING A UFO THAT MIGHT
BE SO INCREDIBLY SOPHISTICATED,
SO INCREDIBLY ADVANCED--IT COULD
BE FROM A CIVILIZATION THOUSANDS
OF YEARS ENGINEERING-WISE AHEAD
OF US. MAYBE WE COULD REPRODUCE
THE GEOMETRIES OF THOSE
COMPONENTS IN THAT UFO, BUT FOR
US TO UNDERSTAND THE FUNDAMENTAL
PHYSICS, THAT'S A HUGE STRETCH.
>> THE CLAIM THAT THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT IS ACTIVELY ENGAGED
IN REVERSE ENGINEERING ALIEN
CRAFT HAS ALWAYS BEEN HIGHLY
CONTROVERSIAL. BUT RECENTLY, NEW
MATERIAL HAS BEEN RELEASED,
PURPORTING TO BE PHOTOGRAPHIC
AND DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE OF
RECOVERED ALIEN TECHNOLOGY.
PROOF AT LAST, OR SOMETHING
ELSE?
>> WHOA!
>> TODAY'S MAINSTREAM TECHNOLOGY
COULD HAVE BEEN WHOLLY DEVELOPED
BY OUR PLANET'S CLEVEREST
SPECIES: US. BUT THE IDEA THAT
WE'VE REVERSE ENGINEERED SOME
DEVICES FROM ALIEN TECHNOLOGY
CONTINUES TO INTRIGUE. AS WITH
THESE PHOTOGRAPHS, ALLEGEDLY OF
U.S. MILITARY DRONES INSPIRED BY
REAL UFOs. MUFON DIRECTOR JAMES
CARRION NOTES STRIKING
SIMILARITIES BETWEEN THE
PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE PURPORTED
MILITARY DRONE AND A FAMOUS UFO
CRASH IN PENNSYLVANIA. DECEMBER
9, 1965, THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE IN
6 STATES AND ONTARIO, CANADA
REPORT SEEING A BRILLIANT
FIREBALL STREAK OVERHEAD. A
NUMBER OF FRANTIC CALLS FROM
WITNESSES WERE RECORDED ON TAPE
AND STILL SURVIVE.
>> ACROSS THE SKY CAME A HUGE,
WHITE BALL OF FIRE.
>> THERE WAS AN OBJECT IN THE
SKY 15 MINUTES BEFORE 5:00.
>> METALLIC DEBRIS REPORTEDLY
DROPS OVER NORTHERN OHIO, AND
THE OBJECT CAUSES SONIC BOOMS
IN WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA.
ACCORDING TO WITNESSES, IT
FINALLY LANDS IN THE WOODS
OUTSIDE KECKSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA,
30 MILES SOUTHEAST OF
PITTSBURGH. LOCAL FIREMEN RUSH
TO THE SCENE BUT DISCOVER A U.S.
MILITARY UNIT HAS ALREADY
CORDONED OFF THE AREA. SOLDIERS
REPORTEDLY TAKE THE MYSTERIOUS
OBJECT TO AN UNDISCLOSED
LOCATION PRESUMED TO BE
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
IN DAYTON, OHIO. THE OFFICIAL
EXPLANATION IS THAT A METEOR
HAS CRASHED, BUT NUMEROUS
WITNESSES AND NEWSPAPERS BELIEVE
THAT THIS WAS IN FACT A UFO, AND
THAT IT HAS PLAYED A KEY ROLE IN
THE U.S. MILITARY'S
REVERSE ENGINEERING PROGRAM.
>> IF YOU LOOK AT EYEWITNESS
INFORMATION, WHO ACTUALLY SAW
THE KECKSBURG OBJECT, THEY SAW
IT MAKE A 25-DEGREE TRAJECTORY
CHANGE. IT HAD SOME SORT OF
INTELLIGENT CONTROL WHEN IT CAME
DOWN. AND EYEWITNESS TESTIMONY
STATES THAT WHAT THEY FOUND WAS
AN INTACT CRAFT ON THE GROUND,
IT HAD MADE A TRENCH WHERE IT
HAD COME DOWN AFTER IT BROKE
THROUGH A BUNCH OF TREES, AND
THAT IT WAS RETRIEVED INTACT BY
THE MILITARY, PUT ON A FLATBED
TRUCK, AND TRANSPORTED OUT OF
THE AREA.
>> CARRION'S RESEARCH HAS
REVEALED THAT NUMEROUS WITNESSES
OF THE KECKSBURG CRASH REPORTED
SEEING STRANGE SYMBOLS ON THE
BASE OF THE UFO. WHEN THE TOWN
ERECTED A MONUMENT TO THE
CRASHED OBJECT, THE SYMBOLS WERE
PROMINENTLY RECREATED, AND NOW,
40 YEARS AFTER THE CRASH, THEY
ARE APPARENTLY TURNING UP IN
ANOTHER CONTEXT.
>> SO WE SEE THE CORRELATION
BETWEEN THE SYMBOLS ON THE DRONE
CRAFT AND THE SYMBOLS THAT WERE
SEEN ON THE KECKSBURG.
>> IF THE CARET DOCUMENTS ARE
INDEED REAL, THEY INDICATE THE
GOVERNMENT MAY BE USING PRIVATE
INDUSTRY TO REVERSE ENGINEER.
PRIVATE ENTITIES HAVE ANOTHER
ADVANTAGE: THEY'RE IMMUNE TO
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION REQUESTS.
>> THAT OBJECT THAT IS IN THAT
IMAGE IS COMPLETELY INCONSISTENT
WITH THE PHYSICS OF AIRCRAFT
FLYING. FOR EXAMPLE, THE MASS
DISTRIBUTION OF THE CENTER OF
THE GRAVITY IS WAY OFF--THERE'S
NO WAY THAT COULD FLY THROUGH
AIR AT HIGH SPEED--WHICH LEAVES
ME THINKING THERE'S SOME MIRACLE
TECHNOLOGY THAT'S WAY BEYOND
ANYTHING WE CAN UNDERSTAND.
MAYBE IT'S ENVELOPED IN A FORCE
FIELD, AND THAT'S PROVIDING THE
AERODYNAMICS. YOU KNOW, IT'S
SPECULATION, BUT IT'S IMPORTANT
TO LOOK AT THE PHYSICS OF WHAT'S
BEING PRESENTED.
>> HAVE YOU HAD A CHANCE TO
ANALYZE THIS?
>> OH, YEAH, THESE ARE SOME OF
THE DRONE IMAGES.
>> DR. BRUCE MACCABEE WAS AN
OPTICAL PHYSICIST FOR THE UNITED
STATES NAVY, SPECIALIZING IN
IMAGERY ANALYSIS. HE AND TED
ACKWORTH ANALYZE THE DRONE
PHOTOGRAPHS.
>> NOW, THESE PICTURES WERE
ESSENTIALLY POSTED ON THE
INTERNET. I SHOULD POINT OUT
THAT CLEARLY THIS IS NOT AN
AERODYNAMIC TYPE OF STRUCTURE
THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT HERE.
>> YEAH, IT'S--
>> IF IT REALLY IS REAL AND
FLYING ALONG, IT'S USING SOME
EXTRAORDINARY MEANS. IT COULD BE
EXTREMELY LIGHTWEIGHT AND
BLOWING AIR DOWNWARDS,
I SUPPOSE.
>> IT'S IMMEDIATELY OBVIOUS THAT
THESE VEHICLES, IF REAL, DEFY
CONVENTIONAL AERODYNAMICS. IN
ORDER TO FLY, THEY WOULD HAVE TO
USE SOME UNKNOWN METHOD OF
PROPULSION AND LIFT.
>> IT SEEMS IN JUST ABOUT EVERY
CASE THAT THE QUALITY OF THE
IMAGES IS VERY LOW. IN THIS
CASE, WITH THE MILITARY DRONES,
FOR ONCE WE HAVE WHAT APPEAR TO
BE VERY WELL-EXPOSED DIGITAL
PHOTOGRAPHS. WAIT A SECOND. IT'S
MISSING--IT'S MISSING SOME
PIECES OF THE CRAFT.
>> YEAH, WELL YOU--
>> AND THIS IS THE EARLY?
>> MACCABEE NOTES THAT ONE OF
THE EARLIEST PHOTOGRAPHS,
ALLEGEDLY TAKEN
IN MAY 2007, DIFFERS FROM
A PHOTO SAID TO BE TAKEN A MONTH
LATER. THE MOST RECENT IMAGE
SHOWS A MORE HIGHLY-DEVELOPED
CRAFT.
>> AND THIS IS THE EARLY?
>> LIKE I SAID, THIS IS A MORE
DEVELOPED VERSION OF IT.
>> SO YOU'RE SAYING THAT
THERE--THERE ARE A SERIES OF
IMAGES THAT WERE POSTED THAT
SHOW A PROGRESSION OF FEATURES
ON THE CRAFT?
>> WELL, YOU CAN SEE HOW THIS
INITIAL VERSION WAS. IT HAD
SPIRES OR SPIKED THAT CAME UP.
IT HAD A CIRCULAR DONUT-SHAPED
MAIN BODY. IT HAD A TAIL GOING
OUT TO THE SIDE AND A SPIKE
COMING OFF OF IT.
>> RIGHT. AND YET, OVER
SUBSEQUENT IMAGES, IT'S
DEVELOPED OR GROWN MORE
COMPONENTS. EITHER THAT MEANS
THIS CRAFT IS ACTUALLY DEPLOYING
ADDITIONAL HARDWARE OR PARTS, OR
SOMEBODY IS BUILDING UP A CGI
MODEL AND DEVELOPING THE
COMPLEXITY OF THE MODEL OVER THE
SEQUENCE OF THE PHOTOS.
>> ALL OF THE STUFF THAT'S BEEN
PRESENTED AROUND THIS ISAAC CASE
AND THESE DRONES, IT'S ALL VERY
INTERESTING, BUT ALL OF THIS
HINGES ON THE TESTIMONY OF SOME
GUY NAMED ISAAC. I NEED SOME
KIND OF EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT
THIS, AND I THINK WE'D HAVE TO
INVESTIGATE THIS FURTHER TO
REALLY KNOW IF ANY OF THIS IS
TRUE.
>> IS THIS REAL, OR IS IT A
HOAX?
>> THE SEARCH FOR THE TRUTH ONLY
ADDS MORE LAYERS TO THE ENIGMA.
>> THESE PHOTOGRAPHS, REPORTEDLY
SHOT OVER CALIFORNIA IN 2007,
SHOW CRAFT POSSIBLY
REVERSE ENGINEERED BY OUR
GOVERNMENT FROM CAPTURED ALIEN
TECHNOLOGY. ALTHOUGH THE CARET
DOCUMENTS ALLEGE THAT
REVERSE ENGINEERING IS BEING
SUBCONTRACTED OUT TO PRIVATE
FACILITIES, MOST UFO RESEARCHERS
BELIEVE THAT IF IT'S TAKING
PLACE, IT'S BEING DONE AT
HIGH-SECURITY MILITARY BASES.
>> WE'RE COMING UP WITH A LOT OF
DOCUMENTS HERE ABOUT
UNDERGROUND BASES AND THEIR
CONNECTION TO
REVERSE ENGINEERING.
>> THE FILE INCLUDES A
DECLASSIFIED FORMERLY-TOP-SECRET
1952 BRIEFING PREPARED FOR
INCOMING PRESIDENT DWIGHT
EISENHOWER.
>> THIS SAYS, "TOP SECRET EYES
ONLY." IT'S PREPARED FOR
PRESIDENT-ELECT EISENHOWER, AND
IT GOES ON TO SAY THAT THE
ROSWELL CRASH WAS REAL, AND THE
WRECKAGE OF THE CRAFT WAS
REMOVED TO SEVERAL DIFFERENT
LOCATIONS, ONE OF THEM POSSIBLY
AREA 51.
>> 2 NAMES HAVE BECOME
SYNONYMOUS WITH
REVERSE ENGINEERING: DULCE MESA,
NEW MEXICO; AND AREA 51. A
NUMBER OF SCIENTISTS AND
ENGINEERS WHO WORKED AT AREA 51
REPORTED SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY AT
THE SITE.
>> ROBERT LAZAR SUPPOSEDLY WAS
ONE OF THE PEOPLE WHO WAS ASKED
BY THE AIR FORCE TO GO TO AREA
51 AND GIVE HIS ADVICE ON HOW TO
REVERSE ENGINEER THE PROPULSION
SYSTEMS OF ALL THE CRAFT THAT
WERE KEPT AT AREA 51.
>> BOB LAZAR SURFACED IN THE
EARLY 1990s, CLAIMING TO HAVE
BEEN AN ENGINEER WHO WORKED AT
AREA 51, SUPPOSEDLY
REVERSE ENGINEERING CAPTURED
UFOs.
>> HERE'S A STORY ABOUT A GUY
NAMED BILL UHOUSE, WHO IS A
RETIRED MECHANICAL ENGINEER FROM
VEGAS, WHO CLAIMS HE WORKS WITH
AN EBE, AN EXTRATERRESTRIAL
BIOLOGICAL ENTITY.
>> BIOLOGICAL ENTITY, RIGHT.
>> ANOTHER PURPORTED BASE
INVOLVED WITH
REVERSE ENGINEERING IS LOCATED
UNDERNEATH THE TOWN OF DULCE,
NEW MEXICO.
>> DULCE IS A VERY SECRET
MILITARY BASE THAT IS
UNDERGROUND. ACCORDING TO THE
UNITED STATES ARMY'S OWN MINING
ENGINEERS, THIS IS THE MOST
HEAVILY TUNNELED AREA IN THE
ENTIRE WORLD. THAT EVER SINCE
THE LATE 1940s, WE'VE DUG
TUNNELS IN ALL THESE STATES.
DULCE IS ONE OF THOSE TUNNELS.
>> I KNOW THAT THERE ARE BASES
THAT ARE TUNNELED DEEP INTO THE
GROUND FOR THEIR PROTECTION SO
THAT THEY CAN SURVIVE, LET'S
SAY, A NUCLEAR ATTACK. BUT ARE
THERE THESE SECRET UNDERGROUND
BASES REVERSE ENGINEERING
VEHICLES? THAT I CAN'T SAY FOR
SURE.
>> A SUBJECT SURROUNDED BY
SECRECY IS ALWAYS AN EASY TARGET
FOR HOAXERS. AND DIGITAL IMAGE
MANIPULATION HAS MADE THEIR JOB
EASIER THAN EVER, WHICH ISN'T TO
SAY THAT THE PHOTOGRAPHS AREN'T
REAL. TED MEETS WITH COMPUTER
GRAPHICS SPECIALIST PHIL
CRESCENZO AT HIS STUDIO IN
AGOURA, CALIFORNIA TO ANALYZE
THE DRONE PHOTOGRAPHS.
>> THE LIGHT FOR THESE OBJECTS
APPEARS TO BE COMING FROM THIS
ANGLE.
>> RIGHT.
>> YOU KNOW, I'M NOT SURE THAT
THAT'S THE SAME ANGLE THAT THE
LIGHT FOR THE TELEPHONE POLE. IF
ANYTHING, I WOULD SAY THAT IT'S
DECEPTIVE.
>> PHIL HAS NOTICED THAT ALL
THE PHOTOGRAPHS SHOW THE CRAFT
MOVING TOWARD OR AWAY FROM A
WOODED AREA BUT NEVER OVER IT.
>> NONE OF THESE SHOTS REALLY
HAVE THE SHIP BEHIND WOODS WHERE
YOU WOULD THINK SOMEONE, IF THEY
SAW A CRAFT LIKE THIS, WOULD BE
SHOOTING CONSTANTLY, AND ONE OR
TWO OF THESE SHOTS WOULD HAVE IT
BEHIND A LOT MORE FOLIAGE. BUT
IT'S MUCH EASIER TO MAKE A
COMPOSITE WHEN YOU HAVE ALL
THESE STRAIGHT LINES AND--FOR
INSTANCE, IF YOU WERE TO TRY TO
PUT THIS CRAFT BEHIND A NUMBER
OF LEAVES. AND I NOTICE THAT IN
THIS WHOLE SEQUENCE OF IMAGES,
THERE ARE NONE WHERE THE CRAFT
IS BEHIND ANYTHING.
>> YOU KNOW, EITHER IT'S A
REALLY, REALLY WELL-CRAFTED
HOAX, OR A REAL IMAGE.
>> IT LEAVES ME WONDERING, YOU
KNOW, WHAT WOULD IT TAKE TO
CREATE THESE KINDS OF FAKE
PHOTOS?
>> REMEMBER THE FRAME THAT I
TOLD YOU TO LOOK FOR?
>> YEAH.
>> THIS IS IT RIGHT HERE, AND I
SHOT IT YESTERDAY, AND I LEFT A
NICE SPOT FOR ME TO PUT
SOMETHING INTO THAT FRAME. I
JUST DID A QUICK APPROXIMATION
OF WHAT THE LIGHTING MIGHT BE
FOR THIS SHOT AND RENDERED A 3-D
OBJECT OUT. IF I JUST BRING THE
OBJECT IN AND LAY IT IN THE
SHOT, YOU GET A PRETTY STARK
IMAGE HERE.
>> TO MY EYE, IT SEEMS CLEAR THE
OBJECT'S JUST STUCK ON THERE.
>> STUCK ON THERE. SO THE FIRST
THING, I WOULD RENDER IT WITH
SOME MOTION BLUR. EVEN OBJECTS
THAT ARE MOVING FAIRLY SLOW
SHOULD HAVE SOME MOTION BLUR
ON THEM.
>> DOES A BLUR OCCUR ON THE
DRONE PHOTOS?
>> IT'S--IT'S SORT OF ONE THING
THAT I FEEL LIKE I'M MISSING
WHEN I LOOK AT THESE PHOTOS IS A
LITTLE BIT OF MOTION BLUR. I
DON'T SEE ANY ROTATION. I SEE NO
MOTION BLUR AT ALL. IT APPEARS
TO BE STATIONARY. AND THAT
CONFLICTS WITH THE FACT THAT THE
CRAFT IS MOVING ACROSS THOSE
TELEPHONE WIRES AND MOVING
ACROSS SOME OF THESE PARTS OF
THE SCENE. NOW, THE OTHER THING
THAT HIS IS MISSING TO SORT OF
FIT INTO THE SHOT IS TO HAVE THE
GRAIN FROM THE BACKGROUND
APPLIED BACK ONTO THE SHIP.
>> RIGHT.
>> I MEAN, LOOK AT THAT.
>> YEP, IT DEFINITELY LOOKS A
LOT BETTER AFTER YOU APPLY THOSE
EFFECTS.
>> EXACTLY.
>> IT'S IMPRESSIVE. I MEAN, YOU
KNOW, YOU'VE GOT IT TO MY EYE
LOOKING LIKE MAYBE 99%
BELIEVABLE THAT THERE'S A UFO
FLYING IN YOUR FRONT YARD.
>> YOU CAN SEE HOW SOMEONE WITH
EVEN MORE TIME WOULD PROBABLY BE
ABLE TO CREATE A VERY CONVINCING
IMAGE.
>> AFTER ALL OF THIS ANALYSIS,
YOU KNOW, WHAT IS IT? IS THIS
REAL, OR IS IT A HOAX?
>> I TEND TO GO WITH THIS BEING
A COMPUTER-GENERATED IMAGE.
>> AT THE END OF THE DAY, WE
WEREN'T ABLE TO PROVE THAT THESE
WERE FAKES OR A HOAX. ON THE
OTHER SIDE, WE WEREN'T ABLE TO
PROVE THAT THEY WERE REAL. I'M
NOT SURE IT'S POSSIBLE TO DO
THAT. AND BOTTOM LINE, YOU KNOW,
I'M JUST NOT GOING TO BELIEVE
THAT WE'RE SEEING A REAL UFO
SOLELY BASED ON A SET OF IMAGES.
>> IF THE CARET PHOTOS AND
DOCUMENTS ARE FAKES, THEY ARE
EXTREMELY GOOD ONES. SOMEBODY
HAS SPENT HOURS CREATING AND
DETAILING THESE DOCUMENTS. WHY?
>> WHY WERE ALL THE PHOTO
WITNESSES ANONYMOUS? NOBODY'S
COME FORWARD. WE HAVE NO
IDENTIFIABLE PERSON WHO SAYS,
"I'VE TAKEN THESE PHOTOS."
>> SO THIS WHOLE THINGS SMELLS
LIKE A HOAX?
>> READ IN-BETWEEN THE LINES
HERE, AND AT THE TOP OF MY LIST
IS DISINFORMATION. ARE THEY
TRYING TO HIDE REAL ALIEN
TECHNOLOGY? ARE THEY TRYING TO
HIDE THAT WE'VE BEEN VISITED BY
EXTRATERRESTRIALS? OR ARE THEY
JUST SIMPLY TRYING TO HIDE A
SUPER-SECRET WEAPON? BUT FOR ME,
THE BOTTOM LINE IS THERE IS A
SECRET HERE THAT'S BEING
PROTECTED. IT'S BEING CLOAKED.
AND THAT'S WHAT MUFON'S HERE TO
FIND OUT, WHAT THAT SECRET IS.
>> IT'S A MATTER OF RECORD THAT
REVOLUTIONARY FORMS OF AIRCRAFT
HAVE BEEN ATTEMPTED IN THE YEARS
AFTER WORLD WAR II.
>> RATHER THAN REVERSE ENGINEER
ALIEN TECHNOLOGY, MOST COMPANIES
ALL THE WAY BACK IN THE 1950s
SIMPLY CREATED THEIR OWN
TECHNOLOGY FROM SCRATCH.
>> IN 1953, AVRO CANADA
DEMONSTRATED PROJECT Y-2.
>> YES, A GENUINE FLYING SAUCER.
>> THE AVRO CAR WAS AN 18-FOOT
SAUCER THAT USED A TURBO ROTOR
FOR UPWARD PROPULSION. BUT EVEN
AFTER SPENDING MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS IN RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT, THE CRAFT COULD
HOVER ONLY UP TO 8 FEET AT A
MAXIMUM SPEED OF 20 KNOTS. OTHER
DISC-SHAPED CRAFT ALL PROVED
UNSTABLE, UNFLYABLE, AND
DANGEROUS. BUT ONE MAN CLAIMS TO
HAVE HELPED BUILD A SUCCESSFUL
FLYING DISC, NOT FOR ANY
GOVERNMENT, BUT FOR A PRIVATE
ORGANIZATION IN OKLAHOMA.
>> I HAD AN EXPERIENCE ON BOARD
THIS 45-FOOT CRAFT.
>> RALPH RING IS A TECHNICIAN
WHO WORKED CLOSELY IN THE 1950s
AND 1960s WITH OTIS CARR, AN
INVENTOR WHO CLAIMED TO BE A
PROTEGE OF NIKOLA TESLA. CARR
BELIEVED HE COULD BUILD A
WORKING FLYING DISC, AND RALPH
RING ASSERTS THEY SUCCEEDED.
>> RALPH, HOW DID YOU MEET OTIS
T. CARR?
>> A FRIEND OF MINE INTRODUCED
ME TO A GROUP CALLED
UNDERSTANDING THAT WAS STUDYING
STUFF LIKE SCIENCE, AND THEY
BROUGHT CARR AND HIS ENTOURAGE
OUT, AND WE GOT UP THERE AND
BRAINSTORMED. WE DECIDED TO GET
TOGETHER AND BUILD SPACESHIPS.
>> 1958, OKLAHOMA, OTIS CARR
STARTS CONSTRUCTION OF THE OTC
X-1, A 45-FOOT FLYING SAUCER. HE
DESCRIBES HIS INVENTION ON LONG
JOHN NEVILLE'S NEW YORK RADIO
SHOW IN 1959.
>> WE HAVE A TRULY SAFE VEHICLE
THAT DOES NOT BURN UP ITS ENERGY
IN A FEW SECONDS. COULD MAKE A
TRIP VERY EASILY AS OTHER
AERIAL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
FROM HERE TO BALTIMORE OR FROM
HERE TO THE MOON.
>> CARR CLAIMED TO HAVE BEEN
SHOWN SECRET THEORIES AND
TECHNIQUES OF NIKOLA TESLA.
THERE IS NO INDEPENDENT
CORROBORATION OF CARR'S STORY.
LATER, CARR CLAIMED TO HAVE SEEN
3 ELECTRICALLY CHARGED UFOs
WHICH INSPIRED HIM TO USE
TESLA'S THEORIES TO CREATE A NEW
FORM OF PROPULSION.
>> WE CAN ACCELERATE WITH
TREMENDOUS VELOCITIES.
>> I WAS SELECTED, AND I HAD 2
OTHER ENGINEERS WITH ME. WE GOT
ON BOARD.
>> RALPH AND 2 ENGINEERS WERE
THE FIRST PASSENGERS.
>> I HAD AN EXPERIENCE ON BOARD
THIS 45-FOOT CRAFT.
>> COULD YOU DESCRIBE THE
EXPERIENCE?
>> SURE. WE GOT ON BOARD, AND
CARR SAID, "WHAT WE'RE GOING TO
DO IS WE'RE GOING TO VIBRATE
THIS CRAFT TO THAT PARTICULAR
FREQUENCY, THE COLOR OF
AQUAMARINE." SO THEY FIRED IT
UP, AND, UH, THIS THING TURNED
INTO THIS BEAUTIFUL, BRILLIANT
AQUAMARINE. THE WHOLE CRAFT
INSIDE WAS ALL LIT UP. AND THEN
HE SAID, "OK, THAT'S IT." HE
SAYS, "COME ON DOWN TO THE
DEBRIEFING. THAT'S THE END OF
THE EXPERIMENT."
>> RING REMEMBERS THE ENTIRE
EXPERIENCE LASTING ONLY 15
SECONDS, BUT THAT SHORT PERIOD
OF TIME ENCOMPASSED SOMETHING
MUCH MORE PHENOMENAL.
>> AND HE SAID, "WHAT YOU DID
WAS YOU WENT DOWN RANGE 10
MILES, AND YOU CAME BACK. YOU
RESONATED HERE FOR ABOUT 5 TO 10
SECONDS, AND WHERE YOU WERE
WOULD PROBABLY EQUATE TO ABOUT
15 MINUTES." HE SAID, "WELL,
CHECK YOUR POCKETS." AND WE HAD
THESE LITTLE JUMP SUITS ON, AND
WE EMPTIED OUR POCKETS OUT, AND
IT WAS STONES AND STICKS AND
GRASS AND EVERYTHING. WE PUT
IT--PILED IT UP ON HIS DESK. AND
HE SAID, "WELL, WHERE'D THAT
COME FROM?"
>> THE DEBRIS RING FOUND IN HIS
POCKET WAS ALLEGEDLY FROM AN
AREA 10 MILES FROM THE TESTING
SIGHT. HE ASSERTS HE DID NOT
HAVE IT BEFORE THE TESTING OF
THE CRAFT.
>> HOW COME WE DON'T REMEMBER
THAT? AND HE SAYS, "WELL,
BECAUSE THE BRAIN HAS REACHED
ITS OPTIMUM CAPACITY."
>> WERE THERE ANY EXTRA
WITNESSES EXTRINSIC TO THE EVEN
ITSELF.?
>> YEAH. THERE WAS A POLICE
OFFICER IN APPLE VALLEY AT THE
TIME, AND HIM AND HIS BUDDY SAW
THIS CRAFT. I LOOKED UP ON MY
EMAIL, AND THE GUY SAYS, "DID
YOU HAVE JUMP SUITS ON?"
AND YEAH. AND HE SAYS, "WELL, I
THINK WE SAW YOU GUYS. I MEAN,
YOU WERE JUST THERE FOR A FEW
MINUTES, AND YOU LEFT."
>> THEY HAD NO IDEA WHAT WAS
GOING ON. THEY FELT A VIBRATION.
TWO, THERE WAS A BRIGHT BLUE
LIGHT. THREE, THEY WOUND UP 10
MILES AWAY WITH NO SENSE OF
MOVEMENT OR ANY MEMORY OF FLYING
THERE. WHAT DOES THAT SOUND
LIKE? IT SOUNDS VERY MUCH LIKE
AN ALIEN ABDUCTION. OTIS CARR
WAS USING THE SAME TECHNIQUES
THAT ALIEN ABDUCTORS USE.
>> COULD WE TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, WHAT THE
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE WAS OR IS
THAT MAKES...
>> WELL, THE SIMPLE EXPLANATION
I CAN GIVE YOU IS YOU REACH A
RESONANT FREQUENCY OF ANYTHING,
AND YOU THEN BECOME--YOU
SYNERGIZE WITH IT. YOU BECOME
KIND OF ONE WITH IT.
>> BECAUSE RING IS NOT A
SCIENTIST, HE HAS A LIMITED
UNDERSTANDING OF CARR'S
THEORIES, OTHER THAN THAT CARR
BELIEVED OBJECTS COULD BE MOVED
THROUGH SPACE AND TIME BY
CREATING A RESONANT FREQUENCY
WITH A PREDETERMINED LOCATION.
RESONANCE IS THE SPECIFIC PITCH
THAT TRIGGERS AN EXAGGERATED
OSCILLATION IN AN OBJECT. EVERY
OBJECT HAS ITS OWN SPECIFIC
RESONANT FREQUENCY. FOR EXAMPLE,
A TUNING FORK IN THE KEY OF "C"
HAS LITTLE EFFECT ON A TUNING
FORK IN THE KEY OF "D." BUT IF
BOTH TUNING FORKS ARE IN THE
SAME KEY, STRIKING ONE WILL
CAUSE THE OTHER TO VIBRATE IN
SYMPATHY. ANOTHER EXAMPLE IS A
CRYSTAL GOBLET WHICH CAN BE MADE
TO RESONATE SO VIOLENTLY AT A
CERTAIN NOTE THAT IT WILL
ACTUALLY SHATTER.
>> WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT
SOMETIMES OUT-OF-THE-BOX
THINKING IS VERY DIFFICULT TO
ACCEPT, AND THERE WERE MANY
GREAT THINKERS IN THE PAST WHOSE
IDEAS WE COULD NOT ACCEPT.
PEOPLE ACTUALLY LAUGHED AT
EINSTEIN WHEN HE CAME UP WITH
RELATIVITY. WHEN THE FATHER OF
AMERICAN ROCKETRY, ROBERT
GODDARD, PROPOSED THE IDEA THAT
WE WOULD ONE DAY BE IN ORBIT AND
IN SPACE, PEOPLE THOUGHT THIS
WOULD NEVER HAPPEN, WE WOULD
NEVER GO INTO SPACE. SO I WOULD
BE RELUCTANT TO DISMISS RALPH
RING'S CLAIMS THAT THERE ARE
DIFFERENT ENERGIES OUT THERE
THAT WE HAVE YET TO TAP INTO.
>> CARR'S THEORIES ARE SO
REMOVED FROM ACCEPTED LAWS OF
PHYSICS THAT THEY SEEM LIKE
SCIENCE FICTION. BUT WHEN
EXPERIMENTS PRODUCER JOHN
TINDALL APPLIED RESONANT
FREQUENCY TO AN OBJECT IN HIS
LABORATORY, HE WAS AMAZED TO
DISCOVER THAT AT LEAST PART OF
WHAT CARR CLAIMED MAY BE VALID.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT KIND OF
RESONANT FREQUENCY OTIS CARR WAS
USING, BUT I'VE SET UP BASICALLY
AN ACOUSTIC LEVITATION CHAMBER
THAT'S GOING TO USE RESONANT
FREQUENCIES TO LEVITATE THIS
LITTLE FLYING SAUCER. THIS IS AN
ACOUSTIC LEVITATION CHAMBER.
BASICALLY, I'M GOING TO TAKE
THIS LITTLE FOAM CUP AND
HOPEFULLY GET IT TO HOVER AND
FLY AROUND INSIDE JUST BY USING
SOUND WAVES. WHAT I'M GOING TO
DO IS I'M GOING TO PUT THIS INTO
A RESONANCE CHAMBER.
>> THE RESONANCE CHAMBER HAS 3
SPEAKERS PLACED ON THE TOP, THE
SIDE, AND THE BACK, REFLECTING
THE 3 DIMENSIONS OF SPACE.
>> I HAVE X, Y, AND Z AXES THAT
I CAN CONTROL FROM THESE 3
OSCILLATORS.
[LOUD TONE]
>> IT'S AMAZING HOW MUCH AND HOW
LITTLE ENERGY YOU NEED ONCE YOU
HIT IT--AH, SEE? THERE IT IS.
>> WOW!
>> THE OSCILLATORS ARE TUNED TO
THE RESONANT FREQUENCY OF THE
CHAMBER, WHICH VIBRATES IN
SYMPATHY WITH THE TONE BEING
GENERATED BY THE SPEAKERS AND
AMPLIFIES IT. THE
INTENSE VIBRATIONS SET UP A
STANDING WAVE INSIDE THE
CHAMBER. THE CUP IS ACTUALLY
RIDING THE CREST
OF THE STANDING WAVE, NOT
UNLIKE A SURFER RIDES THE CREST
OF AN OCEAN WAVE.
[LOUD TONE]
>> THERE YOU HAVE IT.
>> INCREDIBLE.
>> HA HA HA!
>> WOW. CAN YOU TURN IT
UPSIDE-DOWN AGAIN?
>> WELL, WE'LL TRY. THERE YOU
GO.
[ALL LAUGH]
>> WOW, NICE.
>> JOHN TINDALL HAS DEMONSTRATED
THAT SOUND WAVES CAN MOVE OR
LEVITATE AN OBJECT, WHICH CARR
CLAIMED WAS HOW HE INTENDED TO
PROPEL HIS SAUCER.
>> WHEN YOU DO HIT THE RESONANT
FREQUENCY, ALL HECK BREAKS
LOOSE. ALL BETS ARE OFF.
>> HOW EXACTLY WOULD THIS RELATE
TO THE OTIS T. CARR EXPERIMENTS
IN UFO TECHNOLOGY?
>> SO IF HE HAS STUMBLED UPON
SOME SORT OF ETHER RESONANT
FREQUENCY THAT WE HAVEN'T
STUMBLED UPON, THEN THERE COULD
BE SOME STRANGE THINGS COME OUT
OF THAT.
>> I THINK IT'S A BIG STRETCH,
IT DOESN'T FIT ANY OF THE
EXISTING SCIENTIFIC MODELS THAT
WE HAVE, BUT THIS IDEA OF
FINDING A RESONANT FREQUENCY TO
CAPTURE OR COLLECT ENERGY IS AN
INTERESTING IDEA.
>> A THEORY LIKE THIS, USING
SOUND WAVES TO MOVE AN OBJECT,
MIGHT HAVE SEEMED PREPOSTEROUS
25 YEARS AGO, BUT IMAGINE WHAT
WE MIGHT HAVE IN ANOTHER
25 YEARS.
>> GUYS, AFTER ALL THIS
INVESTIGATION IN THIS CASE ON
REVERSE ENGINEERING, I HAVE TO
ADMIT I REMAIN REALLY SKEPTICAL.
THE TESTIMONIES WE'VE COLLECTED
IN THE CASE SO FAR, YOU KNOW,
THEY SEEM LIKE RESONABLY
CREDIBLE PEOPLE, BUT IN EACH
CASE, IT'S BEEN INDIVIDUALS
SAYING THAT THEY HAVE AN
EYEWITNESS EXPERIENCE WITH SOME
ASPECT OF REVERSE ENGINEERING.
>> WHAT ABOUT ALL THE PEOPLE WE
TALKED TO THAT ARE SO HIGHLY
CREDIBLE: BERNARD TOURNELL,
JOHN SCHUESSLER OF MUFON. THEY
SAY THEY KNOW OF REVERSE
ENGINEERING GOING ON, OR THEY
KNOW OF PEOPLE WHO ARE INVOLVED
IN REVERSE ENGINEERING. YOU
KNOW, I DON'T SEE WHY WE
SHOULDN'T BELIEVE THEM.
HOW CAN YOU REJECT THAT KIND
OF TESTIMONY?
>> BUT WE STILL DON'T HAVE THE
ACTUAL VEHICLE.
>> IT'S EASY TO SAY, "WHERE'S
THE UFO?" THAT'S OUR JOB IS TO
HUNT FOR IT. CAN WE FIND IT?
NEXT TO IMPOSSIBLE 'CAUSE
THEY'RE GONNA KEEP IT FROM US.
>> THE REAL TRUTH BEHIND THE
REVERSE ENGINEERING OF PURPORTED
DOWNED UFOs WILL PROBABLY NEVER
BE KNOWN. THERE IS LITTLE HARD
EVIDENCE, ONLY WITNESSES WHO
CONTRADICT EACH OTHER. YET IT'S
UNDISPUTED THAT REVERSE
ENGINEERING IS PRACTICED ON
CONVENTIONAL ITEMS.
>> WE'RE PLAYING WITH TIME
TRAVEL. WE'RE PLAYING WITH
TELEKINESIS. WE'RE PLAYING WITH
PSYCHOKINESIS. WE'RE PLAYING
WITH A WHOLE BUNCH OF THINGS
THAT ARE WAY BEYOND OUR
HUMAN IMAGINATION
TO COMPREHEND, AND YET WE'RE
PLAYING WITH THEM.
>> COULD WE POSSIBLY RESIST THE
TEMPTATION TO ANALYZE AN
ADVANCED CRAFT IF ONE FELL INTO
OUR HANDS? AND IF WE DID MANAGE
TO LEARN THE SECRETS OF AN
ADVANCED CIVILIZATION, WOULD WE
PROVE OURSELVES ADVANCED ENOUGH
TO USE THEM WISELY?